what is it PVC mean well a PVC is a
premature ventricular contraction and
it's an extra beat so again the heart
upper chamber lower chamber upper
chamber then if the lower chamber throws
in an extra beat that's a PVC can you
see that on electrocardiogram you can
yes and the activity that comes the
electrocardiogram the beat is coming
from the muscle but it puts out
electrical current that that's right
that's exactly right and you can see
that as an extra spike on the
electrocardiogram now that's a premature
ventricular that's what is the ventricle
that's from the lower chamber the
pumping chance the big pump right how
about an atrial premature contraction
right that's when the extra beat comes
from the upper chamber so an extra beat
can be thrown in from the upper chamber
or the lower chamber so how does the
patient feel if they've got an extra
beat apiaceae
premature atrial contraction or
premature ventricular how does the
patient feel how do they know it
sometimes well oftentimes people feel
like their heart skipped a beat so if
they can sense their heartbeat they feel
like they actually missed a beat and
that afterwards the heart comes back
strong because it has longer to fill
that's exactly right so it's pumping out
more blood right there but so there's a
long pause after that extra beat where
the heart really can fill so up that's
right how do you know if it's dangerous
or not dangerous well it's a very good
question and that that's something that
actually the the physician helps to
figure out I would say we're more
worried about dangerous heart beats for
somebody with heart disease like
somebody that's had a previous heart
attack and if the episode caused the
person to faint or black out or pass out
or collapse now how about if I
occasionally feel an extra beat but when
I exercise get my heart rate going and
goes away versus if I exercise I feel
more of them right in the first case
when you exercise if the extra beats go
away or smooth out with exercise that's
good that's a good finding if it gets
worse with exercise that can be a
serious finding and if it's worse then
you have to go further on in the
it is the treatment of if it evens out
and you don't think it's something you
have normal do you just assure the
patient yes
there are medications for example there
medications called beta blockers that
block adrenaline and so it buffers the
heart from the adrenaline or epinephrine
in the system but for a benign extra
beats we usually do not give those
medications